ON HERE IT IS SIX
MILES THREE AND I'M GOING TO
CALL TO ORDER THE SEPTEMBER
MEETING OF THE ARNAB
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND I'M
GOING TO ASK FIRST THAT THE
ROLE BE CALLED COUNCIL MEMBERS
ON YOUR COMMISSIONER OFTEN HERE
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS FOR CHAIR
CARTER HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILGROM HERE.
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON HERE.
COMMISSIONER GREEN COMMISSIONER
HAYES HERE.
COMMISSIONER LIKEME
COMMISSIONER FRANCES HERE.
COMMISSIONER LOU AND
COMMISSIONER PIPKIN JUST IS
HERE NOW.
SO WE HAVE A QUORUM.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IF I CAN
GET SOMEONE TO MOVE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER OFMAN IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND?
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT
THE AGENDA, ANY ED. OR
CORRECTIONS FOR THE AGENDA IF
NOT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF ADOPTING THE AGENDA AS
PRESENTED PLEASE SIGNIFY BY
STATING I HEAR YES BUT WHAT I
THANK YOU NEXT IS APPROVAL
OF THE MINUTES FROM OUR LAST
MEETING WHICH WAS IN JUNE.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
PLEASE?
SO I MAKE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF IS THERE A
SECOND CIRCUIT?
>> THANK YOU.
ANY CHANGES CORRECTIONS
ADDITIONS TO THE MINUTES FROM
JUNE IF NOT ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES
PLEASE SIGNIFY BY SAYING I HAD
ANY OPPOSED.
>> THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SAY ANYTHING TODAY TO
THE COMMISSION SEEING NO ONE
WILL MOVE ON REPORT FROM THE
CHAIR?
I WANT TO SAY IT'S GOOD TO BE
HERE.
I WAS NOT HERE AT THE JUNE
MEETING AND I THINK
COMMISSIONER OFMAN FOR STANDING
IN FOR ME AND FOR AGREEING TO
BE VICE CHAIR SO A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
>> FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO
WELCOME OUR NEW COMMISSIONER,
OUR STUDENT COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER LOU GOT IT RIGHT.
OK, GOOD TO HAVE YOU HERE.
IS THERE ANYTHING YOU WANT TO
SAY AT ALL?
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
YOURSELF.
>> OK, SO I'M ERIKA.
I JUST FINISHED SCHOOL AND I AM
NOW WORKING BUT I LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR SO CLOSE BY AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO WORKING WITH ALL
OF YOU GUYS.
GOOD, THANK YOU.
AND THE SECOND THING I WANT TO
SAY IT AGAIN CONGRATULATIONS TO
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS WHO WAS
HONORED AS THE MONUMENTS FOR
THE CITY OF AN OPERA AS PART
OF THE BICENTENNIAL AND WE'RE
JUST AS HAPPY FOR HIM.
DO YOU WANT TO SAY ANYTHING AT
ALL ABOUT YOUR GREAT HONOR?
>> OH, IT WAS IT WAS A GREAT
EVENT.
IT WAS A WAY TO HONOR SOME
OTHER GREAT PEOPLE IN ARBOR AND
IT WAS MY HONOR TO STAND THERE
AND TO BE A PART OF THAT AT THE
PART OF ALL THE GREAT PEOPLE
THAT I WORK WITH AT PEACE
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER FOR OVER
FORTY YEARS SAID AND BEING ABLE
TO BE THERE TO STAND IN THE
PLACE OF ALL THOSE PEOPLE.
>> SO YEAH, CONTRIBUTED SO MUCH
TO THE CITY.
REJOICE.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO A NUMBER OF US DID
ATTEND THE CHIEFS IN JULY HE
HAD A CHIEF ANDERSON HAD A
COMMUNITY MEETING ABOUT THE HIS
VISION MOVING FORWARD AND WE
APPRECIATED BEING THERE.
CHIEF, DO YOU HAVE ANY WORDS AT
ALL THAT YOU'D LIKE TO SAY TO
US THIS EVENING?
WE'RE ALWAYS GLAD TO HAVE YOU
AND THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
DEPARTMENT COME WITH WITH YOU
TO OUR MEETINGS.
>> THANK YOU, MR. ALL YOU ARE
HERE CHAIR.
I AM REALLY PLEASED TO SEE OUR
STAFF HERE AND THEY'RE VERY
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT WHAT WE WERE DOING.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOU
ATTENDING OUR EVENT, OUR
COMMUNITY EVENT TO TALK ABOUT
OUR VISION.
WE HOPE THAT OUR SHARED VISION
IS ONE THAT ALLOWS FOR US TO
CONNECT TO THE COMMUNITY WHILE
ALSO EMBRACING COMMUNITY
POLICING.
WE BELIEVE THAT IT'S GOING TO
TAKE SOME TIME BUT WE'RE
ALREADY STEADFAST IN IT IN A
WAY IN WHICH WE'RE PUTTING
POLICE OFFICERS BEAT.
WE'RE WORKING AND CONNECTING
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND THERE'S
SO MUCH WE CAN DO TOGETHER.
WE LOVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO WORK
WITH THE PARK AND WE WANT TO
HELP GROW FROM WHERE WE ARE AND
HELP HELP DEVELOP US IN TERMS
OF WHERE WE'RE GOING TO BE IN A
COMMUNITY SO THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APPRECIATE YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, CHIEF.
AND WE LOOK FORWARD I DON'T
KNOW IF MISS KENNEDY IF MISS
KENNEDY COMMENTS HAS BEEN IN
TOUCH WITH YOUR OFFICE, BUT WE
WOULD LIKE YOU KNOW, WHENEVER
YOU HAVE A COMMUNITY EVENT
FEELING LIKE PARK AND WE'LL TRY
YET WE DID GET THAT.
WE'RE LOOKING AT SOME EVENTS.
IN FACT WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF THEM THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
NOW.
WE'RE GOING TO BE TALKING ABOUT
WHAT'S CALLED OUR VISION ZERO
WHICH IS A CITY EVENT WILL HAVE
A NUMBER OF THEM.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU'RE INVITED TO THAT.
ALSO WE ARE UPDATING OUR POLICY
AND OUR PRACTICE WITH RESPECT
TO THE ESCALATION.
WE HAVE A NEW PRACTICE THAT
WE'RE TAKING.
WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU ALL
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT WE'RE DOING
WITH DE-ESCALATION.
THERE'S A NEW POLICY, THERE'S A
NEW PRACTICE.
THERE'S INNOVATIVE MODEL THAT
WE'RE USING WHEN WE WORK WITH
WHAT WE CALL THEM MILOJE.
BUT IT'S A VIRTUAL REALITY
SYSTEM.
WE WANT YOU TO ALSO COME AND BE
PART OF IT BECAUSE YOU WILL SEE
WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH RESPECT
TO HOW WE CAN APPROACH
SITUATIONS AND OUR POLICE
OFFICERS FIND WAYS TO NOT USE
FORCE.
SO WE LIKE TO MAKE SURE WE ARE
PROVIDING YOU SO THAT YOU CAN
SEE IT AND PARTICIPATE.
WELL WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SEE, WE HAVE I KNOW A LOT
OF OUR COMMISSIONERS WOULD
WOULD WANT TO COME TO THOSE
EVENTS AS OFTEN AS WE POSSIBLY
CAN.
SO WE THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
WE DO HAVE A MEETING SCHEDULED
I THINK NEXT WEEK WITH CHIEF
ANDERSON TO TALK ABOUT ISSUES
REGARDING THE REPORTING
OF TRAFFIC STOP INFORMATION.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OF YOU'VE
HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO LOOK AT
THE DASHBOARD.
I DIDN'T KNOW IF DR. KARPIAK
WAS GOING TO BE HERE THIS
EVENING.
WE JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE KNOW THE INFORMATION IS
BEING GATHERED.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE IT'S IN A
WAY THAT WE CAN USE IT BECAUSE
WE CERTAINLY WANT TO FOLLOW UP
ON THE TRAFFIC STUDY THAT DR.
KARPIAK DID A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO JUST ONE ONE THING ABOUT
THE DASHBOARD IS IF YOU LOOK AT
THE DIFFERENT ITEMS THE
CITATIONS OF TRAFFIC STOP AND
THE ARRESTS AND ALL THAT STUFF
AND YOU WOULD FIND THAT EACH
ONE IS CATEGORIZED AND THEN YOU
HAVE A LONG BAR OF UNKNOWN OR
NOT DESCRIBED OR NOT PART
OF THAT AND THAT CONSTITUTES A
BIT OF THE THE CASES THAT ARE
PART OF THIS DASHBOARD.
WHAT THIS ANNOYING THING OR
UNCATEGORIZED WE HOPE TO
PROVIDE THAT INFORMATION TO
YOU.
WILL WE MEET SO YOU CAN KIND
OF UNDERSTAND WHAT IT LOOKS
LIKE?
IT IS CHALLENGING BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, HERE IN OUR STATE THERE
IS SO MANY THINGS THAT YOU CAN
STOP A PERSON FOR.
I MEAN THERE'S HUNDREDS OF THEM
AND SO YOU KNOW AND THE REASON
WHY THE OFFICERS ARE STOPPING
THEM IS JUST SO MUCH DATA WE
NEED TO BE ABLE TO TRY TO FIND
A WAY IN WHICH WE CAN LOOK AT
THE DATA WE HAVE THE
INFORMATION SO WE KNOW BUT WE
CAN'T WE CANNOT GET EVERYTHING
THAT WE NEED.
WE'RE GOING TO EXPLAIN IT TO
YOU BUT WE'RE GOING TO EXPLAIN
IT YOU WITH A PURPOSE BECAUSE
YOU'LL KNOW WE'LL RUN YOU
THROUGH A PRESENTATION.
YOU'LL SEE IT.
BUT THE PURPOSE IS WE'RE FIXING
THAT INFORMATION.
BUT IT IS DIFFICULT BECAUSE THE
OFFICERS HAVE A PLETHORA
OF REASONS WHY THEY CAN STOP
INDIVIDUAL AND WE TO BE HONEST
WITH YOU, OUR CURRENT RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR LACK OF A
BETTER TERM CLEMENS IS UNABLE
TO TRACK EVERYTHING WE NEED SO
WE ARE READY WE BROUGHT ON A
DATA A SERGEANT THAT'S WORKING
DIRECTLY WITH DATA AND WE'RE
ALSO LOOKING TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH RESPECT OF DOING WHAT'S
CALLED A REQUEST FOR
INFORMATION SO THAT WE CAN
START FINDING OUT HOW WE GET
WRAGGE DATA.
AND THE LAST THING I THINK
WHAT'S IMPORTANT ABOUT IT IS
WHEN WE PUT THE REQUEST FOR
INFORMATION WHICH MEANS WE'RE
GOING TO GO OUT
TO VENDORS AND
WE'RE GOING TO ASK THE VENDORS
TO HELP US DETERMINE WHAT IS
THE BEST WAY WE CAN COLLECT
DATA.
WE'RE GOING TO INVITE YOU
BECAUSE YOU WILL ASK YOU TO
LOOK AT WHAT THAT SCHOOL LOOKS
LIKE SO WE CAN GET AN AGREEMENT
OR WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
SO YOU KNOW, IN THE BEGINNING
HERE'S WHAT HE CAN DO AND
HERE'S WHAT HE CAN DO SO THAT
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT OUR PLAN
IS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS REGARDING THE
DASHBOARD SPECIFICALLY?
AND I WOULD URGE EVERYBODY TO
TAKE A LOOK AT IT, YOU KNOW,
FOR THE NEXT MEETING AND SO
WE'LL SEE IF WE HAVE ANY
FURTHER COMMENTS.
SEVERAL OF US ARE PLANNING TO
ATTEND THE NACOLE CONFERENCE
NEXT MONTH AND WITH THE
RESIGNATION OF ONE OF OUR
COMMISSIONERS THERE IS A SPOT
IF ANYONE HAS THE TIME AND
WOULD LIKE TO GO.
THE CONFERENCE IS OCTOBER 13
THROUGH THE 17TH IN TUCSON,
ARIZONA AND JUST LET MISS
CUMMINGS KNOW BECAUSE WE'VE
PAID FOR THE SPOT.
OK, SPEAKING OF NACOLE, YOU
HAVE IN YOUR PACKET I THINK A
COPY OF THE NACOLE CODE OF
ETHICS.
I SEE THAT.
YES, I KNOW YOU'VE SEEN IT
BEFORE BUT I'M GIVING IT TO YOU
AGAIN ON THE LAST PAGE THERE
YOU CAN SEE A LIST OF THE
OVERSIGHT AGENCIES WHO HAVE
ADOPTED THIS CODE OF ETHICS AND
I THINK IT WOULD BE A NICE IDEA
FOR ANN ARBOR TO ALSO ADOPT THE
CODE ETHICS BASICALLY THE
PREAMBLE STATES CIVILIAN
OVERSIGHT PRACTITIONERS HAVE A
UNIQUE ROLE AS PUBLIC SERVANTS
OVERSEEING LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES, THE COMMUNITY,
GOVERNMENT AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
HAVE ENTRUSTED THEM TO CONDUCT
THEIR WORK IN A PROFESSIONAL,
FAIR AND IMPARTIAL MANNER.
THEY EARN THIS TRUST THROUGH A
FIRM COMMITMENT TO THE PUBLIC
GOOD, THE MISSION OF THEIR
AGENCY AND TO THE ETHICAL AND
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS
DESCRIBED HERE IN SO I WOULD
LIKE EVERYBODY PLEASE TO READ
OVER THIS AND AT THE
OCTOBER MEETING I WOULD LIKE TO
ASK FOR APPROVAL SO THAT WE CAN
ACTUALLY HAVE ADAPTED THIS
CODE OF ETHICS FOR THE IG PAC.
OK ALL RIGHT.
YOU ALSO HAVE A REPORT YOU KNOW
SOMETIMES I GO ON AND ON BUT I
WAS ABLE TO GO TO NOBLE
CONFERENCE WHICH IS NATIONAL
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF BLACK
LAW LEAGUE BLACK LAW
ENFORCEMENT EXECUTIVES
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND I MUST SAY I WAS AROUND A
LOT OF POLICEMEN AND YOU KNOW,
I HAD TO GET COMFORTABLE WITH
BECAUSE IT WAS A LOT
OF POLICEMEN BUT IT WAS AN
EXCELLENT CONFERENCE.
THERE WERE SEVERAL SESSIONS
DEALING WITH OVERSIGHT AND YOU
GET A CHANCE YOU KNOW, TAKE A
LOOK AT MY REPORT.
I KNOW IT'S LAW BUT A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT I WANTED TO
POINT OUT AS YOU READ THROUGH
THIS THE FIRST THE FIRST
WORKSHOP I WENT TO WAS ENTITLED
HATE IN AMERICA LEADING TO
VIOLENT CRIMES AND THIS IS A
RESOURCE I THINK THAT WE CAN
MAYBE OR MAYBE WON'T HAVE TO
GET TO BUT THROUGH THE US
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN EACH IN
EACH DISTRICT THEY HAVE SOMEONE
WHO CAN COME OUT AND GIVE A
TALK AND TALK TO THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT HATE CRIMES AND HOW TO
COMBAT THEM.
AND THE OBJECT IS TO HAVE
PEOPLE REPORT, YOU KNOW, THIS
IS JUST A PERSONAL THING.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE SO ANGRY AND
SOMETIMES WE DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHY BUT WE'RE SO ANGRY AND
SOMETIMES WE ARE RUDE TO ONE
ANOTHER.
YOU SEE IT AS WE DRIVE.
>> PEOPLE ARE NOT THEY NOT
WILLING TO LET YOU IN?
>> THEY EVERYTHING IS A IS IS A
PUSH AND A PUSH BACK AND I
THOUGHT THIS WAS YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING FOR US TO HAVE IN OUR
ARSENAL IF THAT COMES UP.
THERE WAS ANOTHER WORKSHOP
WHERE INTERESTED ENOUGH THE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION WAS FOUND
TO BE TOO CLOSE TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THAT WAS THAT
WAS A REMINDER THAT WE HAVE TO
KEEP OUR DISTANCE.
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT CO-OP
I THINK COLLABORATION DOES NOT
EQUAL BEING CO-OPTED AND THAT
THAT WAS THAT WAS WHAT I GOT
FROM THAT.
AND I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO
TO PAY ATTENTION TO THAT.
IF IT WAS THEY TALKED ABOUT ONE
OVERSIGHT AGENCY THAT WAS
ACTUALLY UNDER A FEDERAL
CONSENT DECREE BECAUSE WORKING
TOO CLOSELY WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND NOT DOING WHAT
THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO BE DOING.
A COUPLE OF FACTS IN THE EARLY
NINETEEN TWENTIES THERE WERE
ONLY A COUPLE OF OVERSIGHT
AGENCIES.
NOW THERE ARE ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND ALSO I CITED ONE AREA WHERE
OVERSIGHT ACTUALLY DID ITS JOB
SO WELL THEY WERE GETTING A LOT
OF COMPLAINTS ABOUT CHOKEHOLDS
AND THEY COULDN'T FIGURE OUT
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH ALL THESE
CHOKEHOLDS AND SO THEY LOOKED
AT THE BADGE NUMBERS OF THE
OFFICERS WHO WERE DOING THESE
CHOKEHOLD.
THEY FOUND OUT THEY WERE LIKE
CONSECUTIVE WHICH SAID THEY
WERE IN THE SAME TRAINING CLASS
AND THIS IS WHAT THE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION DID AND SO THEY WENT
BACK AND LOOKED AND SAW THAT
WHEN THESE OFFICERS WERE
TRAINED CHOKEHOLDS WERE OK.
AND SO THE OFFICERS WENT
THROUGH NEW TRAINING AND THAT
RESOLVED THE PROBLEM.
THERE WAS A MISS IF I CAN I'D
LIKE TWO BILLION DOLLARS HAS
BEEN PAID OUT SINCE 2010 FOR
POLICE MISCONDUCT CLAIMS.
SO WHEN OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS
CAN TAKE COMPLAINTS AND TRY AND
WORK THEM OUT IT SAVES
EVERYBODY.
LASLEY I WENT TO ONE THAT WAS
CALLED TRAUMA INFORMED POLICING
AND THAT'S A BIG THING NOW
TRAUMA INFORMED WHERE WE HAVE
TO UNDERSTAND WE HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND THE PEOPLE THAT COME
TO US TO COMPLAIN THE PEOPLE
THAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO TO HELP
WITH THE COMMISSION.
AND THE WHOLE IDEA WITH THAT IS
THAT RATHER THAN SAYING WHAT'S
WRONG WITH YOU JUST TO ASK WHAT
HAPPENED TO YOU?
>> WHAT IS IT THAT'S GOING ON
IN YOUR LIFE THAT MAKES YOU ACT
WITH THE WAY YOU DO?
AND SO IT WAS I THINK
DEFINITELY IT WAS WORTH WORTH
GOING TO AND HOPEFULLY YOU'LL
GET SOMETHING OUT OF THE
REPORT.
I DID HAVE A PIECE WHILE WE
WERE IN THE CONFERENCE WAS IN
NEW ORLEANS AND WHILE WE WERE
THERE I WENT TO AN EXHIBIT
CALLED CAPTIVE STATE LOUISIANA
IN THE MAKING OF MASS
INCARCERATION.
AND IF YOU LOOK I MADE SOME
COPIES OF SOME OF THE HANDOUTS
THAT I GOT BUT THERE'S ONE
CALLED INCARCERATION RATES AND
THIS SHOWS IT WAS JUST ALMOST
INCREDIBLE THE INCARCERATION
RATES BETWEEN THE STATE
OF LOUISIANA AND OTHER
COUNTRIES AND THE WHOLE UNITED
STATES AND PART OF THE ISSUE
WAS THAT I DIDN'T KNOW.
I THINK IT'S INTERESTING PART
OF THE ISSUE WAS THAT LOUISIANA
WAS A STATE THAT IN CAPITAL
CRIMES DID NOT REQUIRE A
UNANIMOUS VERDICT TO CONVICT
AND SO AND THEY HAD THE HIGHEST
RATE OF EXONERATED PATIENTS.
SO IT WASN'T UNTIL 20 20 THAT
THEY REQUIRED A UNANIMOUS
VERDICT.
WELL, I KNOW I KNOW IT IS
AMAZING.
SO ANYWAY, ANYWAY HOPEFULLY
THAT IS OF SOME INTEREST.
I'M GOING TO ASK THE VICE CHAIR
AND IF YOU HAVE ANY FEELING
REPORTED ANYTHING ABOUT OUR
COMPLAINTS.
I'M NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT OUR
COMPLAINTS BUT BEING THE CHAIR
OF THE INFORMATION MANAGERS I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANT TO GIVE
YOU A REPORT NOW ABOUT ANYTHING
YOU WANT TO SAY ABOUT
COMPLAINTS OR WAIT UNTIL YOUR
ACTUAL COMMITTEE REPORT DOES
NOT REALLY MATTER IS GOING TO
BE THE SAME WITH HER NOW WOULD
BE OK JUST FOR FOR THE SAKE
OF WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT NOW IS
THE UPDATES WE HAVE ABOUT
TWENTY ONE COMPLAINTS THAT ARE
REPORTED WITH SOME KIND
OF VERDICT FROM THE
AND AND BUT
WE DON'T HAVE THE THE ACTUAL
MATERIALS THAT WE CAN GO IN AND
REVIEW BUT AT LEAST SUMMARY
OF THOSE 21 CASES SO WE HAD
THAT FOR TWENTY POINT FOUR AND
AS TIME PROGRESSES PROBABLY WE
MIGHT HAVE SOMETHING SIMILAR TO
PREVIOUS YEARS BETWEEN 20 TO 30
COMPLAINTS THAT WERE GOING TO
BE RECEIVED.
THE ONLY DIFFERENCE IN THIS IN
THIS ROUND IS THERE WERE FEW
WHERE ABOUT THE POLICE STANDING
BY AT PROTESTS ON CAMPUS
WHETHER OR NOT THE POLICE WAS
INVOLVED OR NOT.
THERE WERE A FEW OF THOSE AND
ALSO THERE
WERE A FEW CAME FROM
ONE INDIVIDUAL ABOUT HIS
ENCOUNTER.
HIS VISION WAS WITH HIS
ENCOUNTER WITH THE POLICE SO
THEY I WOULD SAY MAYBE HALF
OF THOSE ONE UNDER HALF WERE
COMING FROM TWO SOURCES NOT
FROM JUST DIFFERENT INDIVIDUALS
OR DIFFERENT CITIZENS WHO WERE
COMPLAINING.
SO THIS IS THIS IS PART OF THAT
HOPEFULLY AND NOT A LONG TIME
WE'LL HAVE THOSE COMING TO US
SO I CAN REVIEW THOSE ONES AND
ASSIGN THEM TO THE MEMBERS
OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS.
I THINK TODAY WILL BE
RECONFIRMING THE FORMATIONS
OF THE SUBCOMMITTEES AND WE'LL
SEE HOW AND WHY I WOULD LIKE TO
TO HAVE THAT REVIEW BEFORE
ASSIGNING BECAUSE SOMETIMES YOU
CAN'T CALL AND SAY ONE TO FOUR
TO ONE MANAGER BECAUSE YOU
COULD HAVE ONE CASE OR
COMPLAINT WHERE YOU HAVE MAYBE
TWO HOURS WORTH OF VIDEO AND
THEN THE OTHER THREE WOULD BE
JUST MAYBE TEN MINUTES OR FIVE
MINUTES OR SO TO WANT TO BE
ACCOUNTABLE NOT BASED ON THE
NUMBER THAT IT'S GOING TO BE
ASSIGNED TO THE MANAGERS BUT TO
THE AMOUNT OF TIME.
>> EXCUSE ME, I JUST WANTED TO
INTERRUPT AND SAY THAT THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS REPORT IS
INCLUDED IN THE HANDOUTS.
IT'S THE LAST SHEET.
YES.
I THINK I THINK WILL DO IS OF A
FOLLOW UP ON THAT WHEN MY TIME
COMES THAT'S WHEN LOOKING AT
CAN I ASK A QUESTION?
SURE.
I'VE BEEN GETTING AND I I WOULD
IMAGINE WE ARE ALL GETTING SOME
EMAILS SINCE I THINK THEY'RE
ALL JUST BEEN SITTING SINCE
SEPTEMBER A LOT OF EMAILS BUT I
THINK IT JUST AMOUNTS TO TWO
SEPARATE CASES THAT I'M
ASSUMING SHOULD JUST BE GOING
TO THE INFORMATION MANAGERS.
IT'S NOT REALLY GERMANE FOR ALL
OF US.
CORRECT?
I MEAN I THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS
WHAT I'M REFERRING TO.
>> I DON'T WANT TO REFER TO THE
SPECIFIC CASES.
YEAH, WE ARE ALL GETTING THAT
EMAIL BECAUSE THE PERSON WISHES
TO SEND IT OUT AND SO THAT'S
ENTIRELY UP TO THEM.
BUT IT'S IT'S SOMETHING THAT
BUT IT IS BEING HANDLED BY THE
INFORMATION OR THAT'S GOING TO
BE YES.
WITHIN THE PURVIEW OF THE YES.
>> THIS IS WHAT I GOT THE THE
EMAIL YEAH.
ACTUALLY WE GOT A FEW OF THOSE
ONES SINCE THE COMPLAINT
THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS YOU GET
IT THROUGH EMAIL THROUGH THE
EMAIL AND I PASS IT TO AP TO
REINVESTIGATE THAT BECAUSE THAT
WAS QUESTIONING THE FACTUAL
PARTS OF THE REPORT AND I FELT
LIKE I TRIED TO READ THROUGH
SOME OF IT.
IT WAS WASN'T EASY BUT BUT
DEFINITELY IT'S SOMETHING THAT
PROBABLY WOULD REQUIRE ONE
OF OUR LAWYERS OVER HERE ON THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS TO REVIEW
THAT BECAUSE JUST TO MAKE SURE
THAT WHEN WE SEND THE REPORT
WHEN WE SEND THE REPLY TO THE
COMPLAINANT THAT IT'S SOUND
SURE I COULD WRITE BUT I WOULD
SAY I'M NOT AN AUTHORITY ON THE
DECLASSE OF REVIEW AND SUCH
TYPE OF A CASE.
RIGHT.
OK THANKS.
OK AND SO AND FINALLY WITH
REGARD TO COMPLAINTS WE HAD A
COUPLE OF COMPLAINTS AND JUST
REPORT CAME IN AS COMMISSIONER
OTHMAN'S STATED QUESTIONING HOW
WHETHER AND HOW THE HANOVER
POLICE DEPARTMENT WAS INVOLVED
IN THE PROTESTS THAT WERE ON
CAMPUS AND WE DID CONTACT THE
DEPARTMENT AND THEY LET US KNOW
THAT WE WERE NOT INVOLVED IN
THE ARREST OR DISMANTLE THE
ENCAMPMENT OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT BUT WERE THERE TO SORT
OF STANDBY IF NEEDED AND THERE
WAS A QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER
TAXPAYER FUNDS WERE BEING USED
FOR THE POLICE THERE AND THE
ANSWER WAS JUST AS IF THEY DO
FOR FOOTBALL GAMES IF AND OUR
POLICE ARE USED BY THE
UNIVERSITY, THEY ARE WE ARE
REIMBURSED FOR THAT.
SO THEN WE GOT A QUESTION
OF FROM A REPORTER AS TO WELL
SUPPOSEDLY THE REPORTER HAD
SEEN A POLICE OFFICER TURN OFF
THEIR CAMERA WHILE THEY WERE
THERE ON CAMPUS AND SO I ASKED
COMMISSIONER MILGROM I THINK
WHEN WE GET THOSE REPORTS SURE
WE'LL WE'LL SORT OF FILL US IN
ON ON WHAT SHOULD THEY HAVE HAD
ON THEIR CAMERAS IF YOU JUST
GONNA STAND BY AND YOU'RE NOT
PARTICIPATING IN ANY YOU'RE NOT
DON'T HAVE ANY CONTACT WITH
WITH THE CITIZEN OR THE STUDENT
OR WHATEVER.
WHAT DOES OUR POLICY SAY?
SO WE JUST WANTED TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THE POLICY AND I'VE
ASKED COMMISSIONER MILGROM TO
REPORT ON THAT AND AND SO WE'LL
WE'LL MOVE ON AND COME BACK TO
THAT ISSUE.
OK, NEXT ON OUR AGENDA IS OLD
BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY OLD BUSINESS?
OK, NEW BUSINESS I KNOW UNDER
NEW BUSINESS WE WERE GOING TO
INTRODUCE COMMISSIONER BUT
SHE'S ALREADY BEEN INTRODUCED
AND WE AGAIN WELCOME WELCOME
YOU TO THE COMMISSION COME
COMMISSIONERS SUBCOMMITTEE
FORMATION.
I KNOW AS OF LAST YEAR EVERYONE
WAS ON A SUBCOMMITTEE SO I WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYBODY IS
WHERE THEY WANT TO BE STARTING
OFF OUR NEW YEAR IF YOU'D LIKE
TO BE ON A DIFFERENT COMMITTEE
,YOU KNOW WE CAN JUST PICK UP
WHAT LET ME KNOW LATER AND I
CAN SHIFT AROUND BUT WE HAVE
OUR TRAINING COMMITTEE POLICY
COMMITTEE AND SO SOME OF US WHO
ARE COMMITTEES HAVE ONE.
I SAID I WAS GOING TO GET YOU
SOME ADDITIONAL PEOPLE ON THE
COMMITTEE.
HANG IN THERE.
OKAY.
HANGING THEY WE'RE GOING TO
EXPAND THAT COMMITTEE.
I MEAN IT'S NICE TO BE THE
CHAIR WITH.
ALL RIGHT.
AND NOW WE ARE ON TO REPORTS
FROM OUR COMMITTEES AND FIRST
IS A POLICY COMMITTEE SO A BIT
YOUR BACK.
YEAH.
SO WITH REGARD TO THE SITUATION
I DESCRIBE WITH REGARD TO THE
BODY CAMERAS, I THINK I THINK I
WROTE DOWN THE QUESTION I THINK
IS ASKED WHICH WAS UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THE OFFICER
IS SUPPOSED TO HAVE THEIR BWC
BODY WANT CAMERAS ON AND IF NOT
MIGHT HAVE CHANGE TO THE POLICY
BE APPROPRIATE.
SO AND AS I EXPLAINED TO SOME
OF THE OFFICERS BEFORE BEFORE
THE MEETING, I HOPE I'M NOT
MAKING THIS MORE COMPLICATED
THAN THAT IT NEEDS TO BE.
BUT IF YOU KNOW, IF IF ANY
CORRECTION IS NECESSARY I'M
GLAD YOU'RE HERE TO YOU KNOW,
TO CORRECT SO AND IN FACT I
HAVEN'T COME TO ANY HARD
CONCLUSIONS UNFORTUNATELY.
SO I MEAN THERE'S QUITE A FEW
POLICY PROVISIONS, MOST
OF WHICH ARE SORT OF IRRELEVANT
TO THIS.
I MEAN THERE'S A LOT WITH
REGARD TO STORAGE AND USE AND
ETC. BUT THERE IS A GENERAL USE
OF BIASED BW POLICY THAT THAT
SIMPLY SAYS POLICE EMPLOYEES VW
TO FULL RECORD MODE AND ALL
CALLS FOR SERVICE AND DURING
ALL ENFORCEMENT RELATED
ENCOUNTERS AND ACTIVITIES SOON
AFTER THAT WITHIN THE SAME
THERE'S ANOTHER SUBSECTION AND
THIS IS WHERE TO ME IT GETS A
LITTLE CONFUSING.
IT THEN SAYS IT'S UNDER THE
SUBHEADING OF ESCALATING
ENCOUNTERS IF A POLICE EMPLOYEE
BEGINS AN ENCOUNTER OR ACTIVITY
IT DOES NOT REQUIRE THE BWC TO
BE ACTIVATED.
BUT THE ENCOUNTER ACTIVITY
ESCALATES TO INVOLVE POTENTIAL
ENFORCEMENT, THE EMPLOYEE
SHOULD ACTIVATE THE BBC.
THE EMPLOYEE MAY INFORM ANY
PERSONS PRESENT THAT IT'S ON OR
SO OR THAT REQUIRED TO DO THAT
.
SO TO ME IT RAISES THE OBVIOUS
QUESTION.
I MEAN OUR BWC IS REQUIRED TO
BE ACTIVATED TO FULL REPORT
MODE ALL CALLS FOR SERVICE
QUOTE UNQUOTE AND DURING ALL
ENFORCEMENT RELATED ENCOUNTERS
OR NOT AND AND IF NOT, WHAT ARE
THE EXCEPTIONS AND AND AND
BEYOND THAT?
DO THE TERMS CALL FOR SERVICE
AND ALL ENFORCEMENT RELATED
ENCOUNTERS INCLUDE STANDBY
WHICH IN MY FURTHER REVIEW I
DON'T SEE THE TERM STANDBY USED
ANYWHERE.
I'VE SEEN POLICE PRESENCE AND
MAYBE THAT'S AN INTERCHANGEABLE
TERM BUT I DON'T IN THE
POLICIES THAT I'VE THERE MAY BE
OTHERS I HAVEN'T I HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO FIND THERE'S NO THERE'S
NO TERM USE SUCH AS STANDBY.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT BEING ON
STANDBY MEANS.
SO YEAH.
SO SO FAR WITH REGARD TO THAT I
MEAN MY RECOMMENDATIONS WOULD
BE IF THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
THE MANDATE TO ACTIVATE THE BWC
FULL REPORT MODE AT ALL TIMES
MORE OR LESS THOSE SHOULD BE
CLEARLY SPECIFIED AND THEN
MAYBE EVEN SPECIFY WHAT THE
CALLS FOR SERVICE AND WHAT
ENFORCEMENT RELATED ENCOUNTERS
AND ACTIVITIES HOW DO YOU HOW
DO YOU DEFINE THAT AS WELL?
AND I SPECIFICALLY FOR OUR
PURPOSES TO STANDBY INCLUDED
WITHIN THOSE
.
SO BEYOND THAT I GUESS I ALSO
THOUGHT ABOUT THE BROADER
ISSUES HERE WITH REGARD TO HOW
THE DEPARTMENT INTERACTS WITH
YOU AND OTHER AGENCIES AND I
BECAME AWARE THAT THERE WAS
QUITE A FEW POLICIES ON THAT
ONE CALLED MUTUAL AID WHICH IS
THIRTY EIGHT PAGES AND OTHER
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT SERVICES AND THEN
LIAISON WITH AGENCIES INVOLVED
IN TRAFFIC SAFETY.
AND I GUESS I WAS JUST INFORMED
TODAY THAT THAT THERE THAT YOU
HAD SEEN OCCUR AN AGREEMENT
WHICH I WAS NOT I HAVE NOT BEEN
PRIVY TO.
SO SO THERE WAS AN AGREEMENT I
AM ASSUMING UNDER WHICH YOU
PERFORMED SERVICES DURING
DURING THE CAMPUS UNREST IF YOU
WILL.
MAYBE NOT.
I MEAN I KNOW YOU I'M SORRY.
NO, THE THERE IS THE AGREEMENT
TALKS ABOUT I FORGET THE NAME
OF THE AGREEMENT BUT IT TALKS
ABOUT BASICALLY THAT IF ANN
ARBOR IS CALLED UPON IT'S LIKE
A MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND SO YEAH
I MEAN SO WITHIN THE WITHIN THE
WITHIN THE PROVISIONS OF THE
POLICY MY QUESTION BECAME WHAT
WAS THE NATURE OF THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN YOU THEN PUBLIC SAFETY
AND THE DEPARTMENT WITH REGARD
TO THE CAMPUS PROTEST BECAUSE
ACCORDING TO THE POLICY IF
THERE WAS A FORMAL AND SPECIFIC
REQUEST POLICIES REQUIRED THAT
THERE BE A WRITTEN AGREEMENT
WHICH WOULD INCLUDE PAYMENT FOR
SPECIFIC SERVICES AND SO WHAT
WAS THE NATURE OF THE SERVICES
TO BE RENDERED AND THERE'S A
SAMPLE AGREEMENT WITHIN THE
WITHIN THE POLICY PROVISIONS
THAT PROVIDES IT'S THE CLOSEST
THING I COULD COME TO WITHIN
THE WITHIN THE PROVISIONS OF OF
AN AGREEMENT TO PROVIDE STANDBY
SERVICES AND AND THAT AND THAT
SAYS THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED
FOR HERE HERE IN OUR SIMPLY A
PD POLICE PRESENCE NOT ANY
SPECIAL OR ENHANCED DUTIES OR
SERVICES ASSIGNED OFFICERS WILL
BE UNDER NORMAL LAPD COMMAND
AND WILL ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
APD POLICIES PROCEDURES,
PROTOCOLS WHICH AS WE ALREADY
KNOW THAT WOULD BE HAVING YOU
KNOW, NORMAL POLICIES AND
PROTOCOLS WOULD BE HAVING BWC
DONE IN FULL REPORT MODE AT ALL
TIMES SO SO GO AHEAD, MR. SO
YEAH.
I MEAN I GUESS I GUESS THAT'S
WHERE THAT'S WHERE I COME OUT
UNLESS THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
THAT THEN I MEAN I DON'T KNOW
HOW THIS REPORTER KNEW OR YOU
KNOW BECAUSE THE OTHER THE ONLY
THING I'LL MENTION JUST
OFFHANDEDLY IS I WAS GOING TO
SAY, YOU KNOW, IF IF AN OFFICER
OR OFFICERS TURN BACKS OFF
PERHAPS THEY WEREN'T SUPPOSED
TO BE THERE.
BUT I HAVE A QUESTION BASED
JUST THE PAST UNLESS THERE'S AN
EXCEPTION TO IT, YOU CAN TURN
THEM OFF WHICH I HAVEN'T FOUND
AND THAT IT'S POSSIBLE HERE
JUST PROVISIONS I HAVEN'T FOUND
BUT I DID YOU BECAUSE I HAD
LOOKED AT THIS LAST FRIDAY AND
I WENT TO THE GAME AND I
APPROACHED AN OFFICER STATIONED
OUTSIDE MICHIGAN STADIUM PRIOR
TO THE FOOTBALL GAME AND HER
NAME WAS ASHLEY AND WE HAD
CONVERSATION I INTRODUCED
MYSELF AND TOLD HER I WAS
COMMISSIONER AND SAID I WAS
LOOKING INTO THE BEAT OF U.S.
POLICY KNOW SHE HAD TOLD ME
THAT WHICH IS THAT HER BWC WAS
ACTIVATED.
I SAID ARE YOU DO YOU HAVE IT
ON ARE YOU RECORDING THIS
CONVERSATION?
SHE SAID SHE WAS ACTIVATED
THOUGH SHE'S NOT CURRENTLY
RECORDING AND SO SHE SAID IF
SHE WERE TO DETERMINE AT ANY
TIME THAT SHE NEEDED OR WANTED
TO START RECORDING, SHE COULD
SIMPLY PUSH A BUTTON WHICH AND
SHE KIND OF SHOWED IT TO ME,
YOU KNOW, IT'S EASILY
ACCESSIBLE TO HER ON HER
MIDSECTION BUT VERY DISCREETLY,
YOU KNOW, COVERED UP REALLY I
MEAN TO THE AVERAGE BYSTANDER I
WOULDN'T KNOW I SORT IF OR WHEN
SOMEBODY WAS TURNING THEIR BWC
ON OR OFF.
SO I'M NOT SURE I MEAN MAYBE
THEY SAW A LITTLE SKEPTICAL
ABOUT THE REPORTER HOW HE OR
SHE EVEN KNEW THAT THAT WAS THE
CASE.
SO AND SHE ALSO INFORMED ME
WHICH WAS INTERESTING THAT IF
SHE WERE TO PRESS THE RECORDER
WHAT THE RECORDING WOULD
ACTUALLY COMMENCE 30 SECONDS
PRIOR TO WHEN SHE PRESSED IT
JUST PRETTY COOL.
SO YEAH.
SO NOW I GUESS I HAVE A
QUESTION ABOUT IS IT JUST YOU
JUST RECORDED YOU HAVE IT FULLY
ACTIVATED AND AND NOT ACTIVATED
BUT NOT A FULL RECORDED VOTE.
IS THAT IMPRECISELY IN THE
POLICIES?
DO WE NEED THAT?
SO ANYWAY I HAVE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS BUT THAT'S MY
ANALYSIS OF SO I WE'RE NOT
LOOKING FOR ANSWERS.
I DON'T WANT TO PUT YOU ALL ON
THE SPOT WHEN YOU COME TO SEE
US AND WE'RE ASKING YOU
QUESTIONS.
THAT'S NOT THAT'S NOT ADDRESSED
OR IF YOU'D LIKE TO THAT WOULD
BE GREAT BECAUSE I GUESS THE
ISSUE AND WHAT THE REPORTER
SAID WAS AND I TALKED YOU WHAT
I SAID THIS IS AND SHE HAD
SEVERAL QUESTIONS AND I SAID
THIS ISN'T THE WAY THAT WE
HANDLE COMPLAINTS THAT YOU'RE
NOT TOLD ON HOW IF SHE WANTED
TO HANDLE A COMPLAINT THERE WAS
NO ONE NAMED BUT WHAT SHE SAID
WAS SOMEONE SAW THE OFFICER
TURN OFF THEIR CAMERA WHICH
COULD INDICATE THEY FELT IT WAS
NEEDED OR THAT SOMETHING WAS
HAPPENING THAT THEY DIDN'T WANT
RECORDED I DON'T KNOW.
AND SO MAYBE THE POLICY IS
UNCLEAR AND CHIEF, IF YOU OR
SOMEONE WANTS TO TO SAY
SOMETHING AND HELP US ON THIS,
I I CAN'T SO I WAS SITTING HERE
WE WE DID RECEIVE SOME
INFORMATION FROM THE MEDIA SO I
ACTUALLY HAD OUR COMMUNICATIONS
MANAGER.
IT WAS KIND OF THE SAME CONCERN
AND I JUST SENT THEM A MESSAGE
TO SEND IT DIRECTLY TO YOU.
SO YOU HAVE THE RESPONSE TO ALL
OF THEM SO YOU'RE GOING TO GET
YOU'RE GOING TO GET OUR
RESPONSE.
SO I WHICH YOU'VE DESCRIBED
COULD POTENTIALLY BE MAYBE A
HOLE IN OUR POLICY, MAYBE
BECAUSE WHAT YOU DESCRIBED IS
YOU TALK ABOUT WHEN AN OFFICER
IS NO LONGER NEEDED TO HAVE
THEIR BODY WORN CAMERA FOOTAGE,
WHICH IS TRUE.
AND FOR US TO DELINEATE SOME
OF THE REASONS WHY WHICH I
THINK WE HAVE BUT WE CAN WE CAN
PROVIDE MORE INFORMATION ON
THAT.
AS I SAID, IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
THOSE ARE ALREADY PRESCRIBED.
I DIDN'T I DIDN'T FIND THEM
RIGHT THEN WE'LL WE'LL LOOK
INTO THAT FURTHER.
I'M SURE WE HAVE A TEAM HERE.
BUT I JUST WANT YOU TO THINK
ABOUT A FEW THINGS.
THERE ARE REASONS WHY THE
OFFICERS WILL NOT HAVE THEIR
BODY NOT HAVE IT ON ALL THE
TIME.
FOR EXAMPLE, MEDICAL REASONS IF
YOU'RE TALKING TO SOMEONE ABOUT
A MEDICAL CONDITION AND IS
RUNNING OFF ALL THE TIME,
THEY'RE GOING TO TURN IT OFF
BECAUSE THAT'S A PROBLEM FOR US
TO CAPTURE MEDICAL INFORMATION
OFFICERS THAT ENTER THE
RESTROOMS OR PEOPLE GO INTO THE
RESTROOMS.
THERE'S PRIVACY ISSUES.
WE'RE GOING TO TURN IT OFF
SOMETIMES FOR THOSE THINGS.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF REASONS
WHY AN OFFICER MAY TURN THEM
OFF.
HOWEVER, BACK LEADS YOU TO
BELIEVE LIKE THEY'RE JUST
TURNING IT ON AND OFF WHEN THEY
DON'T NEED TO.
SO WE NEED TO MAKE SURE IT'S
PRETTY MUCH FOR PRIVACY ISSUES.
WE NEED TO DELINEATE THOSE
REASONS.
ONE OTHER REASON IS SOMETIMES
AN OFFICER MAY TALK TO A PERSON
THAT WANTS TO GIVE THEM
INFORMATION ABOUT A CRIME AND
IF IT'S A WHOLE BODY WORN
CAMERA AND SOMEONE GETS IT,
THAT'S NOT GOOD FOR THE PERSON
THAT'S TROUBLING THIS
INFORMATION.
SO WE'RE GOING TO TURN IT OFF
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT WE DON'T WANT
TO GIVE UP THAT INFORMATION
BECAUSE PEOPLE WON'T TELL US SO
THERE THERE ARE A LOT
OF REASONS WHY THE BUFFER IS
WHAT WE TALK ABOUT IS SAID 30
SECOND PORTION WE'RE CONSTANTLY
RUNNING.
IT'S REALLY A GOOD THING FOR
THE POLICE OFFICERS TO HAVE
UNTIL THEY PRESS TO PRESS THE
ACTUAL BUTTON BECAUSE I WANT
YOU TO THINK HYPOTHETICALLY IF
A POLICE OFFICER ENGAGES IN A
PRETTY DANGEROUS SITUATION,
THEY ONLY HAVE TWO HANDS SO
THEY MAY HAVE TO USE THEIR
HANDS TO TO ADDRESS IT.
SO WHAT THEY'LL DO IS THEY'LL
PRESS THE BUTTON TO ALLOW FOR
IT OCCUR.
BUT THE BUT WHAT THEY SEE MAY
HAVE HAPPENED BEFORE THEY
ACTUALLY PRESS THE BUTTON SO
IT'LL BUFFER BACK THIRTY
SECONDS SO YOU CAN SEE WHAT
HAPPENED BEFORE THE OFFICER
ACTUALLY ACTIVATED IT AND
THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT INSTEAD
OF SOMETHING ALREADY HAPPENING
AND THEN THEY PRESS THE RECORD
AND THEN YOU CAN'T TELL WHAT
HAPPENED BEFORE.
SO A BUFFER IS BACK FOR THAT
REASON AND IS RUNNING ALL THE
TIME FOR IT BECAUSE WE WANT IT
WE WANT YOU TO BE ABLE TO SEE
WHAT WE'RE DOING BEFORE WE
ACTUALLY ENGAGE.
SO THERE ARE SOME REASONS I
WOULD JUST SAY I MEAN THERE IS
A SECTION THAT I SAW TALKS
ABOUT TIMES TO TURN IT UP AND
YOU MENTIONED THE RESTROOM
BREAK.
I MEAN KNOW THAT COMES TO MIND
BUT I DIDN'T I DIDN'T SEE IN MY
REVIEW ANY ANY GERMANE
EXCEPTIONS TO THIS SITUATION
RIGHT.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE PART
THAT WE'LL REVIEW BECAUSE I
KNOW IN SOME OF THE SOME
POLICIES AS WELL AS WE NEED TO
LOOK AT OURS, WE CAN KIND
OF DELINEATE WHEN WHEN THAT
SHOULD HAPPEN, WHEN IT SHOULD
BE, WHEN IT SHOULD AND IT HELPS
PEOPLE SEE THE TRUE
TRANSPARENCY OF WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
I MIGHT SUGGEST I MEAN I USED
TO BE A LAWYER SO I'M NOT
ANYMORE SO I PROBABLY SHOULDN'T
BE GOING OF LEGAL ADVICE BUT I
MEAN IT COULD JUST BE THAT THAT
THAT FIRST GENERAL PROVISION
PROVISION
SAYING MUST YOU KNOW,
SHELL AT ALL TIMES IT'S IT
MIGHT NOT BE AN ACCURATE
DESCRIPTION OF WHAT IS REALLY
BEING REQUIRED AND IT DOESN'T
MEET THAT DOESN'T NEED TO BE
REPORTED.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S REALLY
GOOD INFORMATION AND THERE'S A
GOOD CATCH GENERALLY SPEAKING I
LIKE TO LOOK AT MUSTACHIO
BECAUSE THERE ARE THINGS THAT
WE SEYCHELLE DO BUT WHEN WE GET
INTO AN AREA WHERE WE'RE SURE
WE WANT IT, WE WANT TO MODIFY
THAT LANGUAGE BUT I THINK WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
DOING WHAT'S BEST FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND THE POLICE
OFFICERS.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY THERE ARE
TIMES WHEN WE SHOW AND WE MUST
DO THINGS SO THAT THAT'S THAT'S
IMPORTANT.
THE ONUS IS ON US TO BE ABLE TO
TO RESPOND TO WHAT WE AND MUST
DECIDE TO GO BACK AND DECIDE
FOR THIS POLICY THAT'S
CURRENTLY IN PLACE AND DECIDE
HOW TO READ OR HOW TO MOVE
FORWARD.
THEN AT THAT POINT WOULD YOU
HAVE A DISCUSSION OF THE NEED
TO CHANGE UPDATED IN A BAD
THING?
WE'LL BE NOTIFIED OF COURSE
THAT UPDATES HOW THAT WITH
ANSWER THE QUESTION AS FAR AS
WHEN YOUR EMPLOYEES ABOUT WHERE
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE OR NOT.
SO THAT IS STILL KIND OF LIKE A
GRAY AREA.
>> YEAH, I THINK TO ANSWER THE
FIRST PART WE WILL MAKE SURE
THAT THE WAY THAT WE KIND
OF OPERATE I KNOW THAT YOU ALL
WORK AS A COHESIVE CARE GROUP.
WE WILL COMMUNICATED BACK TO
THE CHAIR AND THEN SHE CAN
COMMUNICATE IT BACK TO YOU.
I AM GOING TO HAVE US REVIEW
THE POLICY AND THEN WE'LL LOOK
AT IT TO SEE IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT WE NEED TO CHANGE
IF WE DON'T CHANGE ANYTHING IN
THE POLICY, WE'RE GOING TO SEND
IT BACK TO YOU.
IF WE DO CHANGE THINGS IN THE
POLICY, WE'RE GOING TO SEND IT
BACK TO YOU.
SO EITHER WAY YOU'RE GOING TO
GET THE POLICY.
I THINK THE SECOND PART YOU
ASKED ABOUT IT'S A CONSTANT
BUFFERING.
I MEAN BEING ABLE TO RECORD I
THOUGHT ACTUALLY FOR THAT THE
FIRST PART IS THAT WHEN YOU'RE
IN A SITUATION IT SHOULD BE
MORE FOR THE SITUATION WAS WHEN
YOU GUYS WERE THERE AS HELPE TO
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
POLICE OFFICERS.
SO THAT TYPE OF SETTING SHOULD
IT HAVE BEEN ON OR BUT THAT'S
WHERE IT DOESN'T REALLY HELP US
IN POLICY LIKE WE'RE THERE TO
HELP.
BUT AT WHAT POINT DO WE TURN IT
OFF IF SOMETHING COULD POP OFF
AT ANY MOMENT AND WE MAY NOT
HAVE TIME THAT SO YEAH, I WANT
TO READ IT A LITTLE BIT MORE
BECAUSE WHEN WHEN THE
COMMISSIONER MILGRAM WAS
READING IT I HEARD SOMETHING
THAT I HADN'T HEARD IN A POLICY
.
IT WAS THE WORK AND SO IS WHAT
YOU PROVIDED BEFORE AND IN THE
AND AND SO YOU KNOW THE END
TALKED ABOUT ENFORCEMENT SO
WE'RE GOING TO TURN IT ON WHEN
WE HAVE A FORSSMANN BUT IF WE
DON'T HAVE ENFORCEMENT AND A
POLICE OFFICER IS REALLY JUST
TALKING TO YOU, THERE IS NO
REASON FOR THEM TO BE RECORDING
WHAT THEY ARE SAYING AND
SOMETIMES WHEN THEY CAME TO THE
PROTESTS THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT
WILL COME UP IN AND OUT OF THAT
AREA.
WE WOULD JUST TALK TO THEM.
WE WEREN'T REALLY DOING
ENFORCEMENT AND IT WASN'T ANY
REASON FOR US TO RECORD IT.
BUT IF WE TOOK ENFORCEMENT
WHICH WE DID NOT, THEN WE WILL
START RECORDING.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE THE
COMBINATION THE COMBINATION
OF WHAT WE WANT.
WE KIND OF IF FOR SOME A BETTER
TERM WE WE WE WANT PEOPLE TO
FEEL COMFORTABLE TALKING TO US
FOR THE OBVIOUS REASONS.
NOBODY WANTS TO BE RECORDED ALL
THE TIME AND SO WE DON'T WANT
THAT.
BUT IF WE ACTUALLY GET INTO AN
ENFORCEMENT MODE WE WANT THE
POLICE OFFICERS TO ACTUALLY
START RECORDING.
SO YEAH.
SO BUT ON THAT ISSUE I MEAN
WITH REGARD TO THE POLICIES AND
AGAIN PERHAPS I'M MAKING THIS
MORE COMPLICATED THAN IT IS AND
PERHAPS IT'S PERHAPS IT'S TO
FIND SOMEWHERE BUT WHEN IT SAYS
ON ALL CALLS FOR SERVICE AND I
DON'T THINK CALLS FOR SERVICES
TO FIND ANYWHERE AND ON ALL
ENFORCEMENT RELATED ENCOUNTERS
AND ACTIVITY.
SO YOU'RE SAYING PERHAPS THAT
THIS WAS NOT AN ENFORCEMENT
RELATED ACTIVITY BUT IS BUT I
DON'T I WOULDN'T KNOW THAT JUST
YOU KNOW, READING IT MAYBE
THERE SHOULD BE A LIST OF YOU
KNOW OR JUST THE DEFINITION
OF AS WELL AS WHAT IS IT WHAT
IS A CALL FOR SERVICE.
I MEAN IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS WAS
A CALL FOR SERVICE IN THE
NATURAL YOU KNOW, IN THE NORMAL
LEXICON IT SEEMS LIKE A CALL
FOR SERVICE THE DEAD THAT WE
UNDERSTAND A VERY WE UNDERSTAND
IT BUT PERHAPS MAYBE YOU
WOULDN'T SO THAT CAUSE US TO
KIND OF LOOK AT IT.
THAT'S WHY IT'S GOOD FOR OTHER
PEOPLE TO SEE THINGS.
YOU KNOW, A CALL FOR SERVICE IS
GENERALLY WHEN SOMEONE CALLS US
AND WE HAVE SERVICE BUT THE
POLICE OFFICERS CAN INITIATE A
CALL AS WELL WHEN THEY HAVE
CONTACT WITH SOMEONE AND WHEN
THEY INITIATE IT THEY'RE DOING
IT FOR A REASON.
SO THEY WANT TO ACTIVATE THEIR
BODY WORN CAMERA TO DOCUMENT
THERE'S ACTUALLY SOME SERVICE
THAT WERE PROVIDED DID IS
TALKING TO YOU.
THERE'S NOT ANY SERVICE SO WE
PROBABLY NEED TO KIND OF WORK
ON THAT LANGUAGE SO YOU CAN
KIND OF UNDERSTAND THAT A
LITTLE BIT BIT BETTER BECAUSE
LIKE LIKE I UNDERSTAND IT BUT I
READ IT ALL THE TIME YOU DON'T
UNDERSTAND IT WHICH IS WHICH
WHICH MEANS THAT WE NEED IT.
WE NEED TO MODIFY THE LANGUAGE
SO THAT YOU CAN UNDERSTAND IT.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
OR COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER?
I JUST I THINK FROM WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING AND JUST THE WHAT I'VE
JUST READ HERE TODAY FOR THE
FIRST TIME THERE MIGHT BE A
LANGUAGE ISSUE WITH FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND THERE'S THERE'S
ACTIVATED AND THEN THERE'S
ACTIVATED ON FULL RECORD BUT
ACTIVATED IS USED KIND OF JUST
USED YOU KNOW, LIKE AS IT AS IT
WOULD BE IN ANY OTHER SENTENCE
AND I THINK MAYBE THAT IS
LEADING TO SOME CONFUSION LIKE
ACTIVATE IT BUT IT DOESN'T HAVE
TO BE ON RECORD OR DOES IT HAVE
TO BE ON RECORD AND THEN IT HAS
LIKE ACTIVATED TO ON RECORD.
SO MAYBE IT'S JUST DIFFERENT
WORDING FOR THE DIFFERENT
STATES THAT THAT DON'T CROSS
INTO EACH OTHER'S SPACE A
LITTLE BIT BECAUSE I THINK THAT
TO ME JUST READING IT IT'S
CONFUSING THE NUANCE OF WHAT
YOU SAID.
IT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE.
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE TO LOOK AT
IT WHEN YOU SAY ACTIVATED OR
ACTIVATED OR WAS RECORDING, ONE
COULD ASSUME THAT IT MEANS THE
SAME.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE AND
THERE IS A DIFFERENCE AND SO A
SWORDSMITH SO I THINK YOU'RE
RIGHT.
WE NEED WE NEED TO TAKE A LOOK
AT HOW THAT WORDING IS AND
THAT'S WHY THIS IS REALLY GOOD
FOR YOU TO HELP US WITH THE
WORDSMITH ON THAT.
WELL, AND AS TUCKER SAID, I
JUST I ALSO JUST WANT TO THANK
YOU FOR BEING WILLING TO
ADDRESS IT ON THE SPOT WITHOUT
ANY YOU KNOW, YOU DIDN'T KNOW I
WAS GOING TO MENTION ANY
OF THIS SO I APPRECIATE YOU FOR
YOUR WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS
THESE THINGS IN AN OPEN FORUM
LIKE THIS.
YOU I THINK SHARECARE TALKED
ABOUT BEING AT A NORMAL
CONFERENCE AND THE THINGS THAT
THEY TALK TO HER ABOUT
REINFORCE THE RELATIONS THAT WE
SHOULD HAVE.
I THINK WHEN YOU HAVE THAT IT
CAN'T BE CONTROLLED WITH US
GETTING TOO INVOLVED IN WHAT
YOU'RE DOING BECAUSE IT'S A
PROBLEM.
THIS IS WHY THIS RELATIONSHIP
IS REALLY GOOD BECAUSE YOU'RE
GOING TO HELP US BETTER GET
BETTER.
I I LOOK AT IT ALL THE TIME
EVERY DAY AND I CAN SEE THINGS
FROM HERE.
I WON'T SEE IT.
IT'S A BLIND SPOT.
SO SO SO THAT'S WHY I'M GLAD
YOU'RE DOING THIS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER FRANCIS AND
COMMISSIONER MILGRIM ANY ANY
OTHER COMMENTS ON THIS?
I THINK IT'S REAL GOOD AND
SOMETIMES THINGS COME UP, YOU
KNOW AS THIS DID SOMEBODY
CALLED OR EMAILED AND SAID YOU
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON TO THIS
HAVE HAPPENED AND WE WE DON'T
KNOW.
SO AS AS I UNDERSTAND IT THEN
THE CHIEF HAS AGREED TO SORT
OF LOOK AT IT AND GET BACK WITH
US AND THEN WE'LL WE'LL
CIRCULATE AND IF WE THINK WE
NEED TO MAKE FURTHER COMMENT,
WE CAN DO THAT AT THAT TIME.
GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OK, ANYTHING ELSE FROM THE
POLICY COMMITTEE?
I THINK THAT'S ENOUGH.
THANK YOU.
TRAINING COMMITTEE DO WE HAVE
ANYTHING?
NO REPORT WE'RE HOPING TO TO
GET INTO SOME TRAINING.
YES.
THIS FALL AND GET US I STILL
WANT TO GET IN THE THINGS WITH
THE THREE D YES THE THREE D OC
OUTREACH COMMITTEE COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS NO UPDATES SO FAR.
STAY TUNED.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
YEAH.
AS I SAID WE HAVE TWO AND ONE
COMPLAINS AND THERE IS A JUST
BRIEF CONCLUDES TO THE
INVESTIGATION THROUGH LAPD BUT
WE ARE WAITING FOR THE SUPPORT
OF THE MATERIAL SO WE CAN
REVIEW AND ALL SIGN TO THE
INFORMATION JUST TO REVIEW THE
THE COMPLETE.
SO WE ARE WAITING FOR THAT.
THE OTHER THING WE WOULD LIKE
TO GET IS AS I SAID IN THE PAST
TWENTY TWENTY COMPLAINTS WE
HAVE ABOUT 30 OR SO COMPLAINTS
THAT AT THE TIME WHEN WE
STARTED REVIEWING THEM WE DID
NOT HAVE ANY OUTLINE TO HOW WE
REVIEWED WITH THE REVIEW
PROCESS AND ALSO A FEW OF OUR
FORMER COLLEAGUES JUST YOU
KNOW, EITHER THE RESIGN OR THE
AND THAT THEIR TERM AND SO AS
PERSONNEL INFORMATION MANAGERS
WE DID NOT HAVE THEIR INPUT TO
AND THE COMPLAINTS THAT THEY
HAD REVIEWED.
SO WE WOULD LIKE TO GO BACK AND
REVIEW THOSE ONES.
BUT BASICALLY YOU'VE GOT TO GO
BACK OVER ALL THE TWENTY TO
TWENTY TWENTY QUITE WELL.
THANK YOU FOR THERE.
IT'S JUST WE WANT TO BE
THOROUGH AND WE WANT TO BE ALSO
JUST MAKING SURE THAT ALL THE
COMPLAINTS WERE REVIEWED BY THE
INFORMATION
MANAGERS.
THANK YOU.
I'M NEXT IS THE CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE AND I DID SPEAK BRIEFLY
WITH OUR LIAISON SO WE'VE HAD
SEVERAL QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
STATUS OF UNARMED RESPONSE AND
JUST IS THERE ANYTHING
HAPPENING ANYTHING ELSE YOU'D
LIKE TO UPDATE US ON AT THIS
TIME?
I'M TRYING TO LOCATE NOT MUCH
OF AN UPDATE.
THERE IS A RESOLUTION THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
ARE WORKING WITH THE MAYOR AND
SEVERAL OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS
ON LOOKING AT HOW WE DEDICATE
THE REVENUE THAT THE CITY
RECEIVES FROM THE COUNTY MENTAL
HEALTH KNOWLEDGE IN THE PAST
THAT WAS DEDICATED AND THEN
FORTY TWENTY TWENTY SPLIT
ACROSS AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION.
BUT GIVEN THAT WE HAVE MILEAGES
FOR ALL THREE OF THOSE EFFORTS
WE'RE LOOKING AT POTENTIALLY
USING SOME OF THAT REVENUE
TOWARDS UNARM CRISIS RESPONSE.
BUT THIS IS A DEVELOPING
CONVERSATION AS WE COME UP TO
MONDAY'S MEETING SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES ARE PUSHING BACK AND
REALLY HOPING THAT WE PRESERVE
THAT PORTION FOR THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING REVENUE THAT MONEY HAS
BEEN TOWARDS CAPITAL PROJECTS
FOR THE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ON OUR
PUBLIC PARCELS LIKE THE ONE
THAT WE JUST BROKE GROUND ON IN
KOREATOWN AND ALSO FOR SERVICES
SO ESSENTIAL SERVICES WHEN THE
COUNTY HAS HAD FEELINGS ABOUT
HOW THEY FUND SOME SERVICES THE
CITY HAS COME IN IN A PINCH
WITH BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS AND I
ARE WORKING ON THIS BE I THINK
FINALIZED POSSIBLY FOR MONDAY'S
AGENDA.
SO THAT'S THE UNARMED CRISIS
RESPONSE CONVERSATION RIGHT NOW
IS HOW DO WE FIGURE OUT ONGOING
REOCCURRING FUNDING FOR THIS
THE FUNDING THAT WE INITIALLY
HAD SET ASIDE WAS FROM OUR
COVID REALLY FUNDING AND IT'S
JUST ONE TIME FUNDING THAT HAD
TO BE SPENT DOWN AND I THINK
PROBABLY BEFORE WE BROKE FOR
THE SUMMER THAT ERIC CAME UP
WHERE WE HAD TO RFP RESPONSES
ACTUALLY NO ONE RFP RESPONSE TO
EFFORTS AND TRYING TO FIND A
PARTNER AND THAT DID THAT DID
NOT WORK OUT WITH THE CITY BUT
THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE WON'T
HAVE A PROBLEM CRISIS RESPONSE.
IT'LL JUST COME OUT IN A WAY
WHERE WE HAVE TO FIND OTHER
CITY REVENUE TO FUND IT AND
IT'S ON US AND CITY STAFF TO
KEEP INVESTIGATING AND HOW WE
CAN IMPLEMENT ONE EFFORT IS
THAT OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS
ACTUALLY GOING TO VISIT A CITY.
I THINK CYNTHIA, YOU MIGHT HAVE
MORE DETAILS ON THIS.
HE'S GOING TO VISIT PART WHICH
IS STANDS FOR HOLISTIC,
EMPATHETIC ASSISTED ASSISTIVE
RESPONSE TEAM AND THAT'S IN
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA.
SO THAT'S A CO RESPONSE
PROGRAM.
SO HE'S GOING TO VISIT THAT.
YEAH.
SO WE'RE STARTING REALLY FROM
SCRATCH AND WE NEED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE VERY THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT ROLLING THIS OUT THAT WE
YOU TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
ROLLING OUT A REALLY MEANINGFUL
PROGRAM SO WE ARE WORKING ON
IT.
IT'S JUST THAT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE
WE DIDN'T GET THE SEED FUNDING
FROM THE RBA BECAUSE LIKE
COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG SAID RFP
PROCESS FELL THROUGH.
SO WE'RE JUST GOING BACK TO THE
DRAWING BOARD.
>> WELL, WITH REGARD THAT I
MEAN NOT HAVING THE FEDERAL
FUNDS PUTS THIS IN A WHOLE
NOTHER CATEGORY OBVIOUSLY.
SO I GUESS I'M WONDERING IF YOU
CAN IF YOU CAN SAY I MEAN HOW
MUCH OF A PRIORITY WOULD YOU
SAY THIS IS FOR CITY COUNCIL TO
TO FIND THE FUNDS GET THIS DONE
IS IT IS THE PRIORITY IT'S
FROM
THE INITIAL WOULDN'T YOU SAY
IT'S JUST THAT, YOU KNOW, WE'VE
GOT A THE FUNDING IS THE ISSUE
AND YOU KNOW THERE IS GOING TO
HAVE TO BE ADDITIONAL FUNDING
SOURCES.
GRANT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO LOOK FOR OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES BESIDES WHAT YOU
KNOW, THE CITY CAN PROVIDE.
>> SO YEAH, THERE ARE ONLY SO
MANY SOURCES OF REVENUE TO THE
CITY, RIGHT?
>> THERE ARE PROPERTY TAXES,
TAXES AND IDEOLOGIES AND THAT'S
CAPPED TO LIKE OUR PROPERTY
TAXES ARE CAPPED BECAUSE
OF HAVELI SO WE DON'T ACTUALLY
RECEIVE OUR FULL POTENTIAL IN
TAXES HERE.
>> SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS SEE
WHAT WE COULD DO WITH THE
REBATE THAT WE RECEIVE FROM THE
COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH VILLAGE
AND THAT THAT REBATE WE
RECEIVED THAT WE RECEIVE IS
ONLY FOR MUNICIPAL WITHIN THE
COUNTY THAT ALREADY HAVE HAVE
POLICE SO AND THAT'S
REOCCURRING FUNDING AND THAT
MILLAGE IS UP FOR RENEWAL A
YEAR EARLY.
>> SO THE COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
THE THE COUNTY COMMISSION HAS
ALREADY PUT THAT ON THE BALLOT
THIS FALL FOR RENEWAL AND
THAT'S REALLY ESSENTIAL THAT
FOLKS UNDERSTAND THAT NOT ONLY
PROVIDES FUNDING FOR ESSENTIAL
MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTY LIKE
GAMAGE BUT ALSO FOR FOR ANN
ARBOR SPECIFICALLY TO BE ABLE
TO BE FLEXIBLE WITH WHAT THAT
REBATE CAN LOOK LIKE.
>> SO FOR US, YOU KNOW, WE'RE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE CAN
BE CREATIVE WITH REOCCURRING
TAX REVENUE THAT WE RECEIVE AND
I THINK THAT THE COMMUNITY
REALLY THINKS THAT SINCE THEY
VOTE FOR A COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH
AND IT'S LIKE THE INTENT IS
THAT IT GOES TO SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES, IT'S NOT THAT FAR
OF A STRETCH TO THINK THAT IT
COULD POSSIBLY GO TO ERM CRISIS
RESPONSE.
>> WE'RE JUST TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT PORTION OF THAT REBATE
IT COULD BE AND THEN COMING
INTO THE NEXT BUDGET CYCLE
WHERE I WON'T BE ON COUNCIL FOR
THIS BUT COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISONVILLE BECAUSE SHE HAS A
COUPLE OF MORE YEARS LEFT IN
HER TERM THAT'S WHEN WE CAN
REVISIT WHAT THAT MIGHT LOOK
LIKE ON OUR CRISIS RESPONSE
OF OUR GENERAL BUDGET QUESTION
IS THERE ANY TYPE OF FEDERAL
FUNDING THAT'S AVAILABLE LIKE
THE ONE THAT WE ORIGINALLY I
MEAN THAT WAS COVERED BY
FEDERAL RELIEF THAT WAS JUST
ONE TIME FUNDING.
A LOT OF THAT FUNDING WAS TO
PLUG WHAT REVENUE WE GET LOST
BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC AND IT
WENT TOWARDS A NUMBER OF OF
PROGRAMS INCLUDING ONE THING
THAT I HAD CHAMPIONED WHICH IS
A GUARANTEED INCOME PROGRAM.
SO THAT MONEY HAS ALREADY BEEN
APPLIED TO LOW INCOME FAMILIES
AND EVERYTHING TO THE GAL PART
BRIDGE REPAIR BARTON DAM REPAIR
TO LIKE IT WENT TO PROJECTS
THAT WHEN HAVE THAT NEEDED
FUNDING BECAUSE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT REQUIRED THAT WE
HAVE TO REPAIR THAT THERE'S
THERE'S WE HAD NO THERE'S NO IT
WOULD BE VERY EXPENSIVE AND
DANGEROUS IF WE DIDN'T AND IT'S
SO UNFORTUNATE THAT SOMEHOW I
GOT TIED UP IN THIS DISCUSSION
ON UNARMED CRISIS RESPONSE.
THAT MONEY THAT WE HAD
ORIGINALLY DEDICATED TO UNARMED
CRISIS RESPONSE IS NOW GOING
TOWARDS BARTON DAM.
IT'S BECAUSE IT'S THAT MONEY IS
TIMED OUT BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR AND THERE IS NO WAY
THERE'S NO CITY THAT WANTS TO
GIVE MONEY BACK TO CONGRESS.
>> WE ARE KEEPING THAT MONEY
AND WE'RE SPENDING IT FOR THE
BETTER OF THE CITY.
>> IT'S JUST WE JUST HAVE TO WE
HAVE TO REINVASION WHAT WE WANT
FOR ANOTHER CRISIS RESPONSE
THAT IS ACTUALLY THAT COULD BE
A PROGRAM THAT COULD BE STOOD
UP, YOU KNOW, LIKE AND COULD BE
SUCCESSFUL.
>> SO THERE ARE NO HALF
MEASURES HERE ON OUR PART FROM
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND WE WANT TO
SEE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> BUT IT'S MORE THAN JUST
HAVING GOOD INTENTIONS.
IT'S ACTUALLY THE OPERATIONS
OF IT IS MUCH MORE COMPLICATED
AND I THINK WE HAD ORIGINALLY
ANTICIPATED IT IS A HEAVY LIFT.
OH YEAH.
SOUNDS LIKE YEAH.
SOUNDS LIKE AN EXPENSIVE THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ANYTHING ELSE WE NEED TO
KNOW FROM COUNCIL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE DID WE HAD QUESTIONS AND
YOU'VE ANSWERED THEM AS TO
WHERE WE ARE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE ARE AT THE END OF OUR AGENDA
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT
ANYONE THINKS WE OUGHT TO TALK
ABOUT AT THIS TIME?
>> MR ONE THING WE WOULD LIKE
TO REALLY THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
FOR HIM FOR SERVING AS OUR
COMMISSIONER HERE FOR YOUR
THOUGHTFUL DISCUSSIONS AND FOR
YOUR INSIGHTS AND FOR REALLY
THE KINDNESS THAT YOU SHOWED.
YOU KNOW THAT YOU ARE NOT
RUNNING AND I WISH YOU WERE BUT
SOMETIMES ONE'S LIFE SOMETIMES
IS A DIFFERENT KIND OF PATH.
WE WISH YOU THE BEST IN YOUR
FUTURE PLANS AND KEEP US IN
YOUR IN YOUR THOUGHTS AND YOUR
WELCOME TO BE WITH US ANY TIME
OVER HERE AND AND SHARE YOUR
IDEAS.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
FROM RIVER TO MY MEETINGS.
SO IT'S NOT UNTIL AFTER THE
GENERAL ELECTION BUT THANK YOU.
>> JUST IN CASE YOU MIGHT OR
MIGHT NOT BE IN HERE SO I DON'T
THINK CYNTHIA WOULD ALLOW THAT
TO HAPPEN.
WE'RE GOING TO THANK YOU AT
EVERY MEETING YOU'RE GOING TO
PLAY MY TWO CENTS MAYBE NEXT
TIME THE COMMISSIONS SYSTEM
SOMETHING.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> ANYTHING ELSE?
YEAH, IF I CAN SAY SOMETHING I
WAS THINKING SHOULD I SAY IT
PUBLICLY OR NOT.
BUT CHIEF, I JUST WANT TO SAY I
WANT TO APPLAUD YOU SOME
OF YOUR OFFICERS FOR A GREAT
JOB OF SOME SOME WORK THAT I'VE
SEEN THAT THEY DO.
I HAPPEN TO BE LEAVING MY
OFFICE ON FRIDAY LATE AND AN
AMBULANCE PULLED
INTO A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WE SERVE
PRETTY HEAVILY AND IT WAS A
VERY TOUGH SITUATION FOR A
FAMILY WHERE THERE WAS A LOSS
OF LIFE AND YOUR OFFICERS WANT
TO COMPLAIN WHEN I'M GOING TO
TELL YOU WHEN THEY'RE DOING
SOMETHING BAD AND I WANT TO
SOMETHING GOOD TO WRITE YOUR
TELL YOU WHEN THEY'RE DOING
OFFICERS TREATED EVERYBODY IN
SOMETHING GOOD TO WRITE YOUR
THAT SITUATION WITH A
OFFICERS TREATED EVERYBODY IN
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
THAT SITUATION WITH A
OF COMPASSION, CARING.
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
>> YES, REALLY LOOK OUT FOR
OF COMPASSION, CARING.
WHAT WAS A TOUGH SITUATION
>> YES, REALLY LOOK OUT FOR
OF EMOTIONS AND PEOPLE COMING
WHAT WAS A TOUGH SITUATION
IN AND OUT.
OF EMOTIONS AND PEOPLE COMING
I MEAN IT LASTED FOR THREE AND
IN AND OUT.
A HALF HOURS BEFORE THE
I MEAN IT LASTED FOR THREE AND
DECEASED WAS REMOVED AND
A HALF HOURS BEFORE THE
THROUGHOUT THAT THE OFFICERS
DECEASED WAS REMOVED AND
WERE JUST EXCEPTIONAL IN GIVING
THROUGHOUT THAT THE OFFICERS
US SPACE TO WORK WITH THE
WERE JUST EXCEPTIONAL IN GIVING
FAMILY AND BEING COMPASSIONATE
US SPACE TO WORK WITH THE
WITH ALL THE EMOTIONAL THINGS
FAMILY AND BEING COMPASSIONATE
THAT WERE HAPPENING AND
WITH ALL THE EMOTIONAL THINGS
EVERYBODY WHO WAS ON THAT CALL
THAT WERE HAPPENING AND
WAS EXCEPTIONAL.
EVERYBODY WHO WAS ON THAT CALL
>> AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK
WAS EXCEPTIONAL.
YOU AND IF YOU COULD THANK THEM
>> AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK
I WOULD MENTION NAMES BUT WE
YOU AND IF YOU COULD THANK THEM
KNOW.
I WOULD MENTION NAMES BUT WE
>> ALL RIGHT.
KNOW.
AND THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
>> ALL RIGHT.
BILL.
AND THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WE CERTAINLY WE WANT TO HEAR
BILL.
ABOUT THE COMPLIMENTS WE
WE CERTAINLY WE WANT TO HEAR
COMPLAINTS EVERY TIME AND WE
ABOUT THE COMPLIMENTS WE
CERTAINLY WANT TO HEAR ABOUT
COMPLAINTS EVERY TIME AND WE
THE COMMENTS VERY.
CERTAINLY WANT TO HEAR ABOUT
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THE COMMENTS VERY.
ANYTHING ELSE BEFORE WE ADJOURN
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
,CAN I ASK SOMETHING REALLY
ANYTHING ELSE BEFORE WE ADJOURN
QUICK?
,CAN I ASK SOMETHING REALLY
>> YES.
QUICK?
SORRY I'VE BEEN TALKING TOO
>> YES.
MUCH SO WE'VE HAD AN INCIDENT
SORRY I'VE BEEN TALKING TOO
IN A COMMUNITY OF ETHNIC BIAS
MUCH SO WE'VE HAD AN INCIDENT
AND THE CHIEF HAS PUT OUT A
IN A COMMUNITY OF ETHNIC BIAS
STATEMENT ABOUT THIS AND IT'S I
AND THE CHIEF HAS PUT OUT A
LOVE IT AND ALSO HAS ANNOUNCED
STATEMENT ABOUT THIS AND IT'S I
A WAY FOR REPORTING ANY
LOVE IT AND ALSO HAS ANNOUNCED
INFORMATION.
A WAY FOR REPORTING ANY
SO I THINK YOU'VE PUT ON SOCIAL
INFORMATION.
MEDIA A QR CODE BUT IS A SILENT
SO I THINK YOU'VE PUT ON SOCIAL
WITNESS IS THAT RIGHT?
MEDIA A QR CODE BUT IS A SILENT
IS THE PROGRAM SO ENCOURAGE
WITNESS IS THAT RIGHT?
FOLKS TO PARTICIPATE IN THAT
IS THE PROGRAM SO ENCOURAGE
AND I SPOKE TO THE CHIEF ABOUT
FOLKS TO PARTICIPATE IN THAT
THIS BEFORE YESTERDAY IN OUR
AND I SPOKE TO THE CHIEF ABOUT
BOARD MEETING GIVEN THAT YOU
THIS BEFORE YESTERDAY IN OUR
KNOW, TENSIONS ARE REALLY HIGH
BOARD MEETING GIVEN THAT YOU
,THE ELECTION IS COMING IN.
KNOW, TENSIONS ARE REALLY HIGH
>> WE ANTICIPATE MORE PROTESTS
,THE ELECTION IS COMING IN.
.
>> WE ANTICIPATE MORE PROTESTS
>> I'M ALWAYS LOOKING FOR WAYS
.
FOR THE COMMUNITY TO COME
>> I'M ALWAYS LOOKING FOR WAYS
TOGETHER PEACEFULLY AND JUST
FOR THE COMMUNITY TO COME
CELEBRATE THE LOVE AND CARE
TOGETHER PEACEFULLY AND JUST
THAT WE PRACTICE HERE EVERY DAY
CELEBRATE THE LOVE AND CARE
IN ANN ARBOR THERE IS AN EVENT
THAT WE PRACTICE HERE EVERY DAY
AND IN FULL DISCLOSURE I'M ON
IN ANN ARBOR THERE IS AN EVENT
THE BOARD OF THIS GROUP AND IT
AND IN FULL DISCLOSURE I'M ON
IS A FUNDRAISER BUT WE DON'T
THE BOARD OF THIS GROUP AND IT
HAVE TO GIVE TO PARTICIPATE.
IS A FUNDRAISER BUT WE DON'T
>> IT'S WALK A MILE IN MY
HAVE TO GIVE TO PARTICIPATE.
SHOES.
>> IT'S WALK A MILE IN MY
IT'S A REFUGEE SUPPORT OF WALK
SHOES.
IN THE PARK AREA THIS SUNDAY
IT'S A REFUGEE SUPPORT OF WALK
FROM 10 A.M. TO NOON
IN THE PARK AREA THIS SUNDAY
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
FROM 10 A.M. TO NOON
WILL BE THERE TO SPEAK AND IT'S
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
IN SUPPORT OF ALL THE REFUGEES
WILL BE THERE TO SPEAK AND IT'S
WE RESETTLE HERE.
IN SUPPORT OF ALL THE REFUGEES
SO IT'S A JEWISH ORGANIZATION
WE RESETTLE HERE.
THAT SERVES EVERYONE IN THE
SO IT'S A JEWISH ORGANIZATION
COMMUNITY FROM SENIOR SERVICES
THAT SERVES EVERYONE IN THE
TO REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT, TRAUMA
COMMUNITY FROM SENIOR SERVICES
THERAPY FOR FOLKS COMING FROM
TO REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT, TRAUMA
WAR ZONES AND THEY'RE MOSTLY
THERAPY FOR FOLKS COMING FROM
MUSLIM.
WAR ZONES AND THEY'RE MOSTLY
SO I THINK IT'S A GOOD EXAMPLE
MUSLIM.
OF WHAT WE CAN DO HERE AND
SO I THINK IT'S A GOOD EXAMPLE
DESPITE THE THE STRIFE WE'RE
OF WHAT WE CAN DO HERE AND
FEELING AND THEN THE CONCERNS
DESPITE THE THE STRIFE WE'RE
THAT WE'RE FEELING AROUND THE
FEELING AND THEN THE CONCERNS
ELECTION, IT'S GOOD TO SEE
THAT WE'RE FEELING AROUND THE
PEOPLE COME TOGETHER.
ELECTION, IT'S GOOD TO SEE
>> I DON'T WANT US TO BECOME A
PEOPLE COME TOGETHER.
SPRINGFIELDS QUALITY.
>> I DON'T WANT US TO BECOME A
WE WELCOME FOLKS EVERY SINGLE
SPRINGFIELDS QUALITY.
DAY IN OUR COMMUNITIES, IN OUR
WE WELCOME FOLKS EVERY SINGLE
SCHOOLS AND OUR WORKPLACE AND
DAY IN OUR COMMUNITIES, IN OUR
IT'S A NICE WAY TO DEMONSTRATE
SCHOOLS AND OUR WORKPLACE AND
TO OTHER ELECTED LEADERS THAT
IT'S A NICE WAY TO DEMONSTRATE
THIS IS A PRIORITY FOR ANN
TO OTHER ELECTED LEADERS THAT
ARBOR.
THIS IS A PRIORITY FOR ANN
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT PUBLIC
ARBOR.
SAFETY, HOUSING AND ALL THE
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT PUBLIC
SOCIAL SERVICES THAT WE TRY TO
SAFETY, HOUSING AND ALL THE
SUPPORT SO IF YOU HAVE ANY
SOCIAL SERVICES THAT WE TRY TO
QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
SUPPORT SO IF YOU HAVE ANY
NO.
QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
IT'S TEN TO NOON IN THE BURNS
NO.
PART NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK A MILE
IT'S TEN TO NOON IN THE BURNS
IN MY SHOES THIS JEWISH FAMILY
PART NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK A MILE
SERVICES REFERRED TO A JEWISH
IN MY SHOES THIS JEWISH FAMILY
FAMILY SERVICES.
SERVICES REFERRED TO A JEWISH
I AM NOT JEWISH.
FAMILY SERVICES.
OH, YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE
I AM NOT JEWISH.
JEWISH.
OH, YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE
IT'S NOT A RELIGIOUS AFFILIATED
JEWISH.
ANYWAY.
IT'S NOT A RELIGIOUS AFFILIATED
IT'S WHAT THEY DO.
ANYWAY.
>> THEY DO REALLY GOOD WORK AND
IT'S WHAT THEY DO.
I THINK IT HELPS EASES SOME
>> THEY DO REALLY GOOD WORK AND
MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT WHO'S IN
I THINK IT HELPS EASES SOME
OUR COMMUNITY AND YOU KNOW, AS
MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT WHO'S IN
SOME OF THESE INCIDENTS HAS
OUR COMMUNITY AND YOU KNOW, AS
COME UP, SOME OF THE WORRIES
SOME OF THESE INCIDENTS HAS
THAT YOU KNOW WHO IS BEING
COME UP, SOME OF THE WORRIES
HARMED, WHO'S HARMING WHOM IT
THAT YOU KNOW WHO IS BEING
DOESN'T COME OUT WHEN YOU'RE
HARMED, WHO'S HARMING WHOM IT
WALKING SIDE BY SIDE AND HAVING
DOESN'T COME OUT WHEN YOU'RE
BAGELS WITH EACH OTHER, YOU
WALKING SIDE BY SIDE AND HAVING
KNOW, SO YEAH, I'LL BE THERE.
BAGELS WITH EACH OTHER, YOU
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
KNOW, SO YEAH, I'LL BE THERE.
I'M JUST GOING TO BACK UP FOR A
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MINUTE.
I'M JUST GOING TO BACK UP FOR A
YOU KNOW, WE HAD TALKED ABOUT
MINUTE.
MAKING NOTE OF COMPLAINTS AS
YOU KNOW, WE HAD TALKED ABOUT
WELL AS COMPLIMENTS AND I'M
MAKING NOTE OF COMPLAINTS AS
GOING TO ASK COMMISSIONER
WELL AS COMPLIMENTS AND I'M
BILLUPS DO A WRITE UP AND NAME
GOING TO ASK COMMISSIONER
THOSE OFFICERS AND SEND IT TO
BILLUPS DO A WRITE UP AND NAME
MISS CUMMINS.
THOSE OFFICERS AND SEND IT TO
SURE.
MISS CUMMINS.
OK, SO SO WE HAVE THAT AS WILL
SURE.
ANYTHING ELSE.
OK, SO SO WE HAVE THAT AS WILL
>> IF NOT I WILL ENTERTAIN A
ANYTHING ELSE.
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
>> IF NOT I WILL ENTERTAIN A
I MAKE THE MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
SECOND.
I MAKE THE MOTION TO ADJOURN
ALL RIGHT.
SECOND.
ANY OPPOSED WE ARE ADJOURNED